# Alt HS WG Meetup 2025-12-29 (39C3)

## Protocol

- Clem gives an introduction
- Not so technical problems:
    - How to decide what servers should be on the list
    - Who should we keep out
- Idea: have a spec for criteria to be in the "official" List 
- UX is very hard!
    - Download _some_ App => It's already hard to get people on board
    - It is not necessarily the goal of our WG
- Idea: Have a distributed storage. (ceph like) for the messages => Doesn't really work for matrix in it's current form
- Account Portabiltiy
- Idea: ask unis to offer hosting shared


We are not aligned on user flows

**What are the user flows**
- people discover it on matrix.org => easy to solve, people wanna learn
- people download the app and then wanna sign up => 
- Friends convincing people to join matrix

Cool idea:
Have an invite System for registering. Links? QR Codes

=> Registration process is annoying… is it in MAS? => OIDC and a proper identity provider would be helpful.

Onboarding process on the matrix.org website / MAS


**Requirement for List** Matrix Authentication Service


> Big issue: Registration currently is only possible in App!!!!!


Idea of optimal onboarding flow:
1. user Selects a homeserver on matrix.org
2. User gets redirected to onboarding form of homeserver
3. User will get prompted to download client (either built in to the form or redirected to matrix.org)


## Next Steps

1. Open The Matrix Room
2. Set up regular meeting
3. Apply in the https://matrix.to/#/#governing-board-office:matrix.org, have some concise charta for that
4. Ask some people if they wanna join
    - [x] will contact [@sky:codestorm.net](https://matrix.to/#/@sky:codestorm.net)
    - [x] will contact [@cat:feline.support](https://matrix.to/#/@cat:feline.support)
    - [x] will contact [@tulir:maunium.net](https://matrix.to/#/@tulir:maunium.net)
4. The governing board decides if they wanna call it a group
5. reach out to well known public server admins
6. create the trusted homeservers list by starting a policy

## Ideas n stuff

- https://www.chatons.org/search/by-service?service_type_target_id=118&field_alternatives_aux_services_target_id=All&field_software_target_id=274&field_is_shared_value=All&title=
- Sky has a bunch of relevant resources like list of open reg servers, pings, ...
- Monitor uptime of the servers on the list
- consider the possible level of self-service for list maintenance, e.g. by letting hs admins update stuff in a matrix room. but how to moderate that? see how joining muninn-hall works?
- 